README.md, before:

# DSS Extensions: hub repository

**This repository will be populated throughout July-August 2022. Check back regularly or use the "Watch" feature on GitHub to keep up-to-date.**

This GitHub repository will be used to concentrate documentation, discussions, benchmark results, and i18n/locale files around all projects hsoted in the DSS Extensions organization. 

DSS Extensions were originally meant to expose the official OpenDSS engine to multiple languages and platforms with minimal changes. 
Since 2019, that goal has been reached and the target moved to modernize the our base library (DSS C-API) and add useful extensions and modifications to the DSS engine.

Projects currently hosted on this organization use several languages (Pascal, C, C++, Python, Julia, C#, MATLAB) and there have been requests and comments from users interested language bindings for other languages like Java, Go, and Rust. 
To avoid upsetting one of the language bindings when updating the base library, sometimes we cannot change certain aspects of the current implementation. This is the place to raise concerns and suggestions about such topics.

Several pre-2022 issues from the other projects were transferred to the issue tracker here. Even though the wording on those may suggest the original project/language, they present challenges or tasks shared across all projects.

Commit message:

Add links to the official OpenDSS and note we're not supported by EPRI.

README.md, after:

# DSS Extensions: hub repository

**This repository will be populated throughout July-August 2022. Check back regularly or use the "Watch" feature on GitHub to keep up-to-date.**

This GitHub repository will be used to concentrate documentation, discussions, benchmark results, and i18n/locale files around all projects hsoted in the DSS Extensions organization. *As a reminder, the projects hosted here are not supported by EPRI.*

DSS Extensions were originally meant to expose the official OpenDSS engine to multiple languages and platforms with minimal changes. 
Since 2019, that goal has been reached and the target moved to modernize the our base library (DSS C-API) and add useful extensions and modifications to the DSS engine.

Projects currently hosted on this organization use several languages (Pascal, C, C++, Python, Julia, C#, MATLAB) and there have been requests and comments from users interested language bindings for other languages like Java, Go, and Rust. 
To avoid upsetting one of the language bindings when updating the base library, sometimes we cannot change certain aspects of the current implementation. This is the place to raise concerns and suggestions about such topics.

Several pre-2022 issues from the other projects were transferred to the issue tracker here. Even though the wording on those may suggest the original project/language, they present challenges or tasks shared across all projects.

Although we have the Discussions feature is enabled, there is no intention in fragmenting the OpenDSS community. We recommend checking and considering posting to the official OpenDSS forum if it's a general OpenDSS question or issue (if possible, test with the official OpenDSS GUI or using the official COM version).
- Official OpenDSS discussions: https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/discussion/
- Official OpenDSS docs at https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/Doc/ and [OpenDSS_COM.chm](https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/x64/OpenDSS_COM.chm?format=raw)
- Better search: use a search engine such as Google with `inurl:https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/discussion/` and your keywords; [example](https://www.google.com/search?q=inurl%3Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fsourceforge.net%2Fp%2Felectricdss%2Fdiscussion%2F+DSS+Extensions).
